WHAT is WAR? 
Answer. The curse of mankind; the mother of famine and pestilence; the source of complicated miseries; and the undistinguishing destroyer of the human species. 
How is war divided? 
Into offensive and defensive. 
What is the general object of an offensive war? 
Sometimes it is to regain by the sword what had been unjustly taken from the rightful possessor: Sometimes to prevent impending dangers, which cannot be avoided by other means: But, for the most part, it is undertaken to gratify the ambition of a prince, who wishes to subject to his arbitrary will a people whom God created free, and to gain an uncontrouled dominion over their rights and property. 
Are there any instances of such princes? 
Yes, many. History is filled with the wicked lives and miserable deaths of tyrants. The present king of Great Britain, whose history is not yet completed, is a living example of such a prince. He carried an offensive war into the East Indies, and deprived many thousands of those innocent people of their lives and property: and he is now carrying on an offensive war in America, without one specious plea of justice for so doing: Most wickedly aiming at the absolute disposal of that extensive country, and its numerous inhabitants. For this purpose he has spread desolation and death amongst their friendly habitations, and prosecutes his wicked design with aggravated cruelty and horror. 
What may justly be said of such a prince? 
That he looks on his fellow-creatures as created only for his use, and makes their misery his sport. That the spirit of thousands, who have fallen a sacrifice to his ambition, flutter round the polished points of his imperial crown, and cry to heaven for justice - that his throne rests on the sculls of the slain - that his unhallowed feasts are defiled with blood and that the curses of widows and orphans are poured out against him at every rising sun. 
THAT history will do justice to his memory, and record his crimes with his name, for the abhorrence of posterity and that the blood he has wantonly spilt in unjust pursuits will most assuredly be required of his hands. 
WHAT is defensive war? 
IT is to take up arms in opposition to the invasions of usurped power, and bravely suffer present hardships, and encounter present dangers, to secure the rights of humanity, and the blessings of freedom, to generations yet unborn. 
Is even defensive war justifiable in a religious view? 
THE foundation of war is laid in the wickedness of mankind. Were all men just and good, there would be no cause of contention amongst them; but as the case is far otherwise, war is become absolutely necessary, as many other institutions are, which derive their origin from the weakness or wickedness of men. Even laws and government would be useless encumbrances were there no open violence or secret treachery to be guarded against. God has given man wit to contrive, power to execute, and freedom of will to direct his conduct. It cannot be but that some, from a depravity of will, will abuse these privileges, and exert these powers to the injury of others: and the oppressed would have no safety or redress but by exerting the same powers in their defence: and it is our duty to set a proper value upon, and defend to the utmost, our just rights, and the blessings of life: other wise a few miscreants would tyrannise over the rest of mankind, and make the passive multitude the slaves of their power. Thus it is that defensive is not only justifiable, but an indispensable duty. 
Is it upon these principles that the people of America are refilling the arms of Great-Britain, and opposing force with force? 
STRICTLY so - The Americans had nothing in view but to live peaceably and dutifully under a constitutional subjection to their acknowledged sovereign. They patiently submitted to many unjust encroachments of power. They were not tenacious of every right; But at last the designs of Great-Britain became too manifest to be mistaken: and the Americans were urged on to the distressing necessity of chusing one of two great evils; either to enlist themselves, and their unborn posterity, the unconditional slaves of a corrupt and wicked administration; or to brave the horrors of war, under every disadvantage, in a noble struggle for the rights of mankind. They have resolutely determined on the latter; and after solemnly appealing to God and the world for the justice of their cause, are prosecuting the war with promising hopes of success. Supported by the rectitude of their principles, they have surmounted the greatest difficulties, and have exhibited instances of personal bravery and military conduct not exceeded by the heroes of antiquity - And may Heaven prosper their virtuous undertaking! 
BUT it has often been said, that America is in a state of rebellion. Tell me, therefore, what is REBELLIO? 
IT is when a great number of people, headed by one or more factious leaders, aim at deposing their lawful prince, without any just cause of complaint, in order to place another on his throne.
Is this the case of the Americans? 
FAR otherwise. They have repeatedly declared, with the most solemn protections, that they were ready to support, with their lives and fortunes, the present king of Great-Britain, on the throne of his ancestors; and only requested, in return the enjoyment of those rights, which the British constitution confirms to all his subjects; and Without which, the boasted freedom of that constitution is but a solemn mockery and an empty name. 
To whom has the king of England committed the conduct of this war? 
To Lord and General Howe. 
WHO are these gentlemen? 
THEY are the brothers of a Colonel HOWE, who fought bravely along with the Americans in a former war between the English and French, and fell in battle. The Americans loved and honoured this Colonel Howe: they lamented his fate, and at their own expence erected a monument to his memory in the town of Boston. But these gentlemen, with unrelenting hearts, and sacrilegious hands, have defiled their brother's tomb with the blood of those whose affection had raised it to his honour; and have plunged their hostile words into bosoms glowing with love and esteem for their mother's son. 
WHAT progress have they made in subduing America? 
VERY little. They got possession of the town of Boston; but could not hold it. They were but tenants at will there, strictly speaking, for their landlords ejected them without any warning, and distrained for rent upon certain military stores. 
What did they next? 
THEY took Staten-Island, where there was nothing to oppose them, and a part of Long-Island, and so ferried themselves over to the city of New York. From thence they crept into Jersey, and taking advantage of a critical period, when the American troops were disbanded by the expiration of their enlistments, and before a new army could be raised, they advanced to the banks of the Delaware, well knowing that there was nothing to oppose their progress. On the banks of the Delaware they sat themselves down, and fell to plundering the adjacent country. In the mean time they published an enticing proclamation, offering pardon and protection to all those who would accept of it, upon the easy terms of unconditional submission. But the Americans did not despair: they soon found a spirited militia to supply the place of their disbanded troops until a new army could he raised. This militia, with a small remainder of the regular troops, crossed the Delaware at midnight, in a snow-storm, and following their gallant general through the most severe and inclement weather, unexpectedly attacked, and drove the enemy from their station in the utmost confusion, and made twelve hundred of their men prisoners of war, and then re-crossed the river to their former encampment. The British then rallied, and returned to their post, knowing that a large reinforcement was on the way to their relief. But the American general, having a range of fires along the banks of the river to deceive the enemy, marched his army in the night, re-crossed the Delaware, and by a circuitous rout, surprised, attacked, and defeated the enemy's expected reinforcement. The royal army is now lying in Brunswick, mortified and crest-fallen.
WHAT are the striking outlines of the king of England's character? 
Injustice, obstinacy, and folly. He is unjust, because he endeavours to get by force what is denied him by the laws of the realm over which he presides, and in direct violation of his coronation oath: he is obstinate, because he refuses to hear the humble petitions of an oppressed people: and his folly is conspicuous in quarrelling with the Americans who loved and honoured him who were the faithful and zealous contributors to the support of his crown and dignity, and a never failing and encreasing source of wealth to him, and to the merchants and manufacturers of his country. 
WHO has the chief command of the American army? 
His Excellency GENERAL WASHINGTON. 
WHAT is his character? 
To him the title of Excellency is applied with peculiar propriety. He is the best and the greatest man the world ever knew. In private life, he wins the hearts and wears the love of all who are so happy as to fall within the circle of his acquaintance . In his public character, he commands universal respect and admiration. Conscious that the principles on which he acts are indeed founded in virtue and truth, he steadily pursues the arduous work with a mind neither depressed by disappointment and difficulties, nor elated with temporary success. He retreats like a General, and attacks like a Hero. Had he lived in the days of idolatry, he had been worshipped as a God. One age cannot do justice to his merit; but a 
grateful posterity shall, for a succession of ages, remember the great deliverer of his country.

