ADDRESS TO THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
HAVING observed, with real concern, the state of supineness and neglect into which this society seems to have fallen, I cannot suppress the zeal that urges me to attempt something that may draw your attention to the important purposes for which the legislature hath incorporated you as a philosophical society, and to propose some regulations which may, in my opinion, prove beneficial to this institution.
PREVIOUS to the late war our society was making considerable progress towards becoming useful and famous: it had already attracted the notice of learned men in Europe. The communications, by members at home and abroad were frequent and valuable; so that in its infant state, it was enabled to publish a volume of transactions which stamped a credit on the society, and made it an object worthy of public encouragement.
THIS fair prospect, however, was totally overcast by the dreary tempest of war. The still voice of philosophy could not be heard amidst the hostile din of arms, the thunder of the cannon, and the horrible confusion of ravaged countries and plundered cities. 
BY the blessing of Almighty God, the prudent and heroic conduct of the citizens and soldiers of America, and the friendly assistance of a powerful ally, this war, which threatened so loudly, hath terminated in the establishment of our independance, and a peace highly honourable and advantageous to us. 
IT is now time - it is high time - that philosophy should again lift up her head. Political sovereignty being thus secured to us, the eyes of Europe are turned towards America - And with what view? Not altogether to contemplate the peculiarities of our government. If our systems should be bad, we shall be the chief sufferers; if they are wise and good, we shall reap the chief advantage - foreign nations are not directly interested in this speculation. But they look towards us as a country that may be a great nursery of arts and sciences - As a country affording an extensive field of improvement in agriculture, natural history, and other branches of useful knowledge. They look to those suture philosophers, who shall search nature in her hidden recesses; in regions yet unexplored; in depths and caverns, which the light of day hath never yet illumined. 
No sooner were the glad tidings of peace announced, but many of the literati of Europe were hasty to encourage our pursuits by their friendly notice. The many letters, with presents of useful and curious books we have lately received, evince this. 
IN what an interesting situation, then, are we placed? And in this interesting situation permit me to ask, what are we doing? I am truly sorry that the answer to this question should amount to little more than this - we are returning very civil acknowledgements for the letters and presents so received. 
IT may, indeed, reasonably be supposed, that every citizen of America must find himself intimately interested in the political concerns of his country; left in an unsettled state by the confusions of war; and deeply engaged in the arrangement and establishment of a new empire, to which the late important revolution hath given birth. 
BUT these excuses, however substantial, cannot avail us long. If it shall be perceived, that year after year elapses, and nothing interesting is produced, no discoveries made, or even attempted to be made: when it shall be perceived, that our barrenness must be occasioned, either by a want of abilities, or which is, indeed, the truth, by a shameful want of attention, we must unavoidably sink into contempt: and when this shall be the case - I will venture to prophesy - this society will never regain its lost ground. Some other future philosophical society, better modelled, and composed of more zealous members, may rise into notice, and become useful: but this society will sink into oblivion. 
I hope we are yet at a considerable distance from such disgrace; but as I apprehend we are rather verging towards it, my concern would not suffer me to withhold this warning. 
To prove that my sears are not altogether without foundation, I appeal to three notorious circumstances; our shameful neglect of the stated meetings of the society, the great scarcity of philosophical communications, and the tenor and complexion of our book of minutes. 
NEVER was there an aera in which philosophical pursuits were more encouraged, or pushed with more success, than the present. The discoveries which have been made in every part of Europe, are most interesting and important. Some have contrived means to separate the different kinds of air, compounded in bodies, and to investigate and prove experimentally their respective properties: others have plunged, as it were, into the element of fire, to search out its subtle powers, and develope that great secret of nature, the generation of animal heat: some are pursuing electrical experiments, with the most promising assiduity: others are adding new worlds to our system: and others, on principles hitherto undiscovered, send up the vast balloon, and float in regions deemed inaccessible to man.
THE door to knowledge seems to be wider open than ever it was: the authority of the schools is daily giving way to the authority of nature. It is now perceived, that it is not absolutely necessary that a man should be what is called learned in order to be a philosopher. A judicious and careful examination of the phenomena of nature, and experiments, simple and easily made, may, and often do, lead the attentive enquirer to most important discoveries; even without any knowledge of what are called the learned languages, or of the systematical doctrines of the schools. 
MANY, I am persuaded, have suppressed strong inclinations for experimental pursuits, from a notion 
than none can be a philosopher, or ought to meddle with philosophical enquiries, unless he has had what is generally called a learned education. The position is not true in reason or in fact: - it is not true in fact; for, many of the greatest advances in philosophical knowledge have been made by men not eminent for their learning: and many of the most useful improvements in mechanics have been produced by men of the most scanty education. That deservedly and universally admired philosopher the worthy president of this society, made some of his most important discoveries before he had acquired any considerable knowledge in school learning; for he had not a liberal education his youth. The position is not true in reason; for the language of nature is not written in Hebrew or Greek; the understanding thereof is not involved in the contemptible quirks of logic, nor wrapt in the visionary clouds of metaphysical hypothecs. The great book of nature is open to all - all may read therein - and who can read and understand, without worshipping the God of nature, who thus manifests himself in the simplicity and power of his works? 
THE idolatrous veneration heretofore paid to the theoretical philosophy of those sages, who derive half their reputation from the gross ignorance of the ages in which they lived, is now in a great measure done away: men begin, without fear of condemnation, to lay aside faith in philosophy, and bring doctrines to the test of fact. The impenetrable mysteries and supernatural influences of chymistry have vanished with the smoke of the furnace, and we see that chymical processes are governed by the unalterable mechanical laws of nature, which want nothing but fair investigation to be understood. The fatal fabric of systematical physic -  that slaughter-house of one-fourth part of the human species, is now falling to ruin. The modern physician simplifies his practice, by attending to nature and fact, and following their indications in preference to the dictates of Galen. In a word, men do not now, as heretofore, act peremptorily on what may appear to be reason; but reason cautiously on what appears to be fact: and this must surely be the right and safe road to the knowledge of truth. 
WHAT a glorious aera for the advancement of true philosophy! The road to knowledge laid open, and the fashion of the times leading into it. 
IN the midst of such advantageous circumstances, shall I again ask the mortifying question - What are we doing? - I avoid the answer - I would not offend my design if only to rouse the society from that state of supineness and lethargy into which it seems to have fallen, and to stimulate its members to a more active attention. 
OUR deficiency, I am confident, is not owing to a want of men of strong natural abilities, or a sufficiency of acquired learning amongst us. America hath been noted for the sagacity of her citizens. The very climate is favourable to the production of genius; and the uncultivated abilities of the owed class of the natives of this country, seem to be as keen and discerning as those of any country whatever. Our deficiency, then, must be owing merely to a want of attention, which, in our situation, is unpardonable. 
BUT, as I have presumed to point at the evil, it is but a reasonable expectation that I should also attempt to suggest a remedy. This I will readily do according to my ideas of what may be beneficial to the society. 
IN the first place, I think it requisite that this corporation should have a building of its own, properly constructed for the accommodation of our library, natural curiosities, and philosophical apparatus, with a convenient hall for the meetings of the society, public orations, lectures, etc. To this building there should be annexed an observatory, a small chymical laboratory, and a botanical garden. To accomplish so great a design, the situation of our treasury is certainly far inadequate. A moderate revenue would serve all the purposes of the institution, is we were once provided with a building and apparatus; to effect which, I know of no way, but that of a general subscription, and an application to the legislature for some assistance. This once accomplished, our annual income might be augmented, by obliging every new member (honorary members in distant countries excepted) to pay eight dollars for his certificate, and to sign an obligation to contribute twenty shillings per annum, to the support of the funds; and to be prohibited from voting, or being voted for to any office, unless all arrears be paid up: and if any member should refuse or neglect to pay his annual subscription for three years successively, it should be deemed a voluntary withdrawing himself from the society, unless in case of absence from the country beyond sea, or other manifestly reasonable excuse. 
I would propose, that in the election of counsellors, particular respect should be had to choose such as would probably duly attend the stated meetings of the society; and that the counsellors so chosen, should understand, that however other members may be at liberty to attend or not, as inclination or convenience may permit, it will be expected of them, that they mall regularly assemble at the stated times for promoting the purposes of the institution; and, therefore, they shall be noticed by written or printed tickets, at lead twelve hours before the time of meeting.
THIS particular notice, however, should not imply the exclusion of any other member or members, summoned only by public advertisement, who may choose to attend. 
THE counsellors, besides the stated meetings, may hold meetings on their own adjournments, or may call themselves together, whenever it mail be thought necessary; but shall do nothing decisive concerning the society, in their own adjourned meetings, but only digest and plan mere matters of business, to be recommended and determined upon at the next slated meeting of the society. 
MY object herein is, that all matters of business, being duly considered and prepared, the attention of the society may not be too much engaged in matters of little importance to philosophy; so that the conversations at the stated meetings, may be mostly employed in philosophical subjects with as little interruption as possible. 
BUT above all, and as a principal object, I would recommend that at every stated meeting of the society, or at least as often as may be convenient, one or more philosophical experiments should actually be exhibited. The particular experiment to be determined upon at the preceding meeting, in order that the curators, whose special duty it should be, may provide the requisites, and see that the necessary apparatus be in order for the purpose: and is any experiment be suggested by a member, it shall be performed at the expence of the treasury, provided a majority of members present when it is proposed shall so determine: and every experiment made, with the view in making it, and the final result should be fully recorded in a book to be kept for that purpose. 
SUCH are the outlines of a reform, which I think would remedy the evils complained of and for the following reasons: -  first, as to the neglect in attending the meetings of the society. The exhibition of curious, and sometimes new experiments, with the conversations and reasonings which such experiments would naturally occasion, must, I think, unavoidably engage the attention of many who now absent themselves for want of inducements of entertainment or instruction. Secondly, the scarcity of philosophical communications: this would also probably be remedied, as the seeing experiments performed, and the possessing convenient opportunities of bringing conceived truths to the test of fact, would incite and produce essays on many useful and curious points, which now live only in idea, and die in neglect. And, thirdly, our book of minutes would shew that they record the proceedings of a philosophical society. 
To conclude, I wish this address may be considered as preparatory to a motion I shall now make which is 
" THAT a committee may be appointed to take into consideration the constitution, laws, and regulations of the society; and to propose such alterations, amendments, and additions thereto, as they may think most likely to advance this society, and promote the good purposes for which it was instituted: and that the said committee propose the most promising means by which a building, and a complete philosophical apparatus, may be procured; and report at the next meeting, or as soon as may be convenient."

