MR. PRINTER, 

IT is not easy to conceive how much I was surprised and disappointed at the discourse of my friend, as communicated to you in my last. There are indeed some whom we confide in with safety in these precarious times: and people should be very cautious in opening their minds before persons of a doubtful political character. 
IT is a rule in our tory society to be very circumspect in this particular But I confess that, in this instance, I was not as prudent as I should have been; and I have had the mortification of being reprimanded for my indiscretion before a full meeting. 
You can hardly imagine what regularity prevails in our board of tories. We are all formed into committees of various denominations, and appointed to various duties. I have myself the honour to belong to the committee of wiles and stratagems. It was I, Mr. Printer, who planned the scheme for dealing the mail sent by General Washington to congress. And my design was so successfully executed, that whilst the committee of congress were searching Bristol for those letters, they were then on their way to our friend General Howe; where they safely arrived, as we have been since informed. You may be sure that I gained great applause for this manoeuvre.
WE have also a committee of false reports; whose duty is to fabricate and publish such articles of intelligence as may tend to alarm and terrify timid whigs, and distract the minds of the people. These are circulated at such times as the situation of public affairs may make them most probable. Sometimes they are thrown out in whispers, in so dark and secret a manner that their origin cannot be traced; and at other times openly, by means of the Pennsylvania Ledger. 
WE have, moreover a committee of true intelligence; whose business it is to employ a number of spies, 
who are directed to mix amongst the people in the assumed character of zealous whigs; to hire themselves as servants and waiters in houses and taverns frequented by members of congress. This committee holds a regular correspondence with our friends in the British army; so that we are certainly informed of what passes on both sides, from the best authority, and are thereby enabled to take all advantages. Happily for us, the several ferries and stages have as yet been lest free and open, so that our messengers pass and repass without examination, and of consequence this department has been attended with little or no difficulty. 
AN OTHER committee is called the committee of lies: whole duty differs from that of false reports in 
this the latter is to circulate misrepresentations of facts respecting the armies, and things of a public nature, on the large scale: whilst the former only frame temporary lies for the use of this city: particularly respecting the deliberations and intentions of congress. These lies must be fresh and fresh every day; and always supported by a strong assertion that the information came from some leaky member of congress; generally without mentioning the name of any individual member; yet, in cases of urgency, the real name of some leading character may be adduced; when the lie hay have had its operation before it can be contradicted. 
THERE is likewise a committee of extortion; these are wealthy men, who monopolize, as far as they can, the articles most wanted for the rebel army; buy up the necessaries of life, and put on them the highest prices they can with any appearance of propriety, in order to make the people discontented and uneasy. 
THE last committee I shall mention is the committee of depreciation - as important as any - they are to take all possible pains, and to exercise every subtle art to run down and depreciate the Continental currency. This committee is very large., and composed chiefly of brokers and monied men. They get some of this money, and run with it to discharge any debts they may have contracted, with a seeming anxiety to get rid of it as fast as possible. Is they have goods for sale, they openly avow three prices: one, is the purchaser will agree to pay in hard money; an higher price, is in provincial paper, under the old government; and a still higher, is in the present continental bills of credit. But we have many other ways of bringing that currency into disrepute, which I am not at liberty to mention.
I would give a list of the men of most influence in our society - at present this would be improper: but I will be more explicit hereafter, when toryism may be more safely and openly avowed. 
SOME narrow minded people say, that we are doing all we can to ruin our country, and entail a miserable slavery on our unborn posterity. We believe we are doing the best we can for ourselves - and pray what has posterity done for us, that we should run the risk of confiscation and a halter for them? Our sixed opinion is, that the British army must eventually subdue this country - and setting the right or wrong of the thing out of the question, we think we may as well have the reputation and advantage of assisting them in their designs as not. 'Tis true, is the British Generals should succeed in their enterprise we may see our neighbours and friends imprisoned by hundreds, and hanged by dozens; their estates confiscated, and their children turned out to beggary and want; but then we shall ourselves escape, and enjoy in safety our lives and estates - and, perhaps, be even promoted, for our present services, to places of honour and emolument.

