INTELLIGENCE EXTRAORDINARY. 

THE great revolution that hath taken place in America, will undoubtedly involve many circumstances of considerable importance and curious speculation. None, perhaps, more remarkable than this, that the philosophical world may expect to be entertained with a phenomenon in mechanics, altogether new, and which cannot fail to engage universal attention. 
THE Americans having observed the great irregularities to which the political systems of Europe are liable, have invented a method of regulating the affairs of their empire by ACTUAL MECHANISM.  For this purpose an immense pendulum hath been constructed, of which the point of suspension is fixed somewhere in the orbit of the planet Mars, and the Bob is composed of certain heterogeneous matter of great specific gravity, called the American Congress. 
THIS miraculous pendulum is to vibrate between Annapolis, on the Chesapeak, and Trenton, on the Delaware; a range of about 180 miles. 
IT will require the most subtle mathematical investigations to ascertain the true path of this political bob: for  it is pretty certain that it will not move in a straight line, nor in a cycloid, nor in a parabola, nor in an hyperbola, nor in any other known curve; but will have a motion peculiar to itself, forming a crooked line, the properties of which cannot be reduced to any of the rules with in the present system of mathematics. 
ALTHOUGH the oscillations of this pendulum will not be performed in, yet they will average equal times. Two vibrations mud be made in two years: but these vibrations may bear no determatine proportion to each other; for  their relative proportions will depend entirely upon the specific gravity of the bob:which being, from the nature of its composition, very variable, will render the oscillations equally variable with respect to each other: and, which is very extraordinary, although in all other instances, the more ponderous a body is, the more it is disposed to rest, and the shorter and slower will its vibrations be when suspended, it will be the reverse in the present case; for  the bob will be inclined to motion more or less, in proportion as the matter of which it may be composed shall Happen to be more or less dull and heavy. 
BY the oscillations of this pendulum and its heavy bob, are thirteen wheels of the American machine to be regulated. And, it is expected, that the different combinations of motions, the actings, and counter-actings, the checks, and counter checks of the moving parts, will so correct and ballance each other, as to produce, in the final result, a movement so perfectly equable, that the great desiderata, viz. the perpetual motion, and the discovery of longitude, will no longer puzzle the brains and drain the purses of seekers in science. 
BUT the most entertaining consequence of this improvement in politics will be, that it will render visible the locomotive faculties of the several nations in Europe; so far at least as the same may be ascertained by their respective ambassadors and envoys. for , as they must all follow the movements of the American bob, they will do this according to the genius of the countries to which they respectively belong. The volatile and active will always keep within reach of the object of pursuit: the careless and indolent will loiter by the way; and the dull and phlegmatic be so distanced, that by the time they shall have arrived at one of the limits of oscillation, they will find it necessary to tack about and follow the pendulum in its return to the other. 
IN order to render this alternate peregrination as convenient as may be to their ministers, the several governments of Europe are to raise by contribution the sum of four hundred thousand guineas for the purpose of levelling the roads between Annapolis and Trenton, building bridges, and erecting houses of residence in each of those towns, if those can properly be called houses of residence wherein the inhabitants are to have no rest. 
SOME have thought that when this monstrous pendulum shall be once set in motion, it will not be possible to confine it within the proposed limits; but that it will by its great weight (contrary to the usual laws of gravitation) enlarge its field of action, and acquire a velocity which will cause it to swing from New-Hampshire to Georgia. 
A further improvement hath also been suggested; which is this Many philosophers slave been of opinion, that the most regular and proper motion of a pendulum would be to cause it to swing in a horizontal circle, and not in a vertical plane, as the common practice is, so that the firing or rod may describe a cone, of which the apex will be in the point of suspension, and the base formed by the circumference of the circular plane in which the bob moves. 
SHOULD this idea prove just (which Mr. Rittenhouse has been directed to ascertain) the revolutions of America will be performed in a circle, whose diameter, north and south, will be from a point in St. John's river, Nova-Scotia, to the mouth of the great river Missisippi, and west and east, from the Lake in the Woods, to an unknown distance in the Atlantic ocean. The only inconvenience will be the cutting a circular road through mountains and forests for  the accommodation of foreign ministers and the officers of congress; and the providing sufficient ships at the point where the said line of circumvolution shall leave the continent, and enter on the waters of the Atlantic, in order that their excellencies, and their honours, may be attendant oil this sublunary planet in every part of its orbit. 
A. B.

