L WAS much entertained by your friend's explanation of the devices and mottos which distinguish our continental bills of credit. When a motto accompanies a device, there should be such a connection between them that the one should be explanatory of the other, so that a little knowledge of the language from which the motto is selected, should be sufficient for a discovery of the author's sentiment. But I have often puzzled my brains to no purpose to translate some of the mottos in heraldry; there being seldom any connection between the device and the inscription. And as the grammar of the motto is almost always incomplete, I have been inclined to think that the words were only intended as ornamental, in filling up the vacant space of a handsome scroll. 
YOUR writers of essays and pamphlets are generally very fond of mottos as well no title-page as no motto. The person amongst the Indians who acts in the capacity of physician and magician (for they always unite these characters) wears a leaf of some plant on his sorehead or bread, to indicate his knowledge in the medicinal qualities of herbs; just so a fragment from Virgil or Horace is frequently stuck in the title-page of a pamphlet, merely to shew that the author understands Latin. 
IT is curious to observe how the works of the ancients have been frittered into scraps for this use, and how strangely they have been misapplied. Three or four detached words, having the least seeming analogy with the subject in hand, are eagerly seized upon for a motto: whereas, perhaps, upon examining the passage from which these words have been plundered, and observing what precedes and what follows, we may find a sentiment very different from that to which the modern author hath applied them, is not directly contrary to it. 
BY the same management passages in Holy Writ may be adduced as authorities for every species of immorality and wickedness. 
ABSURD as these applications of scripture may appear, I have known learned preachers almost as much out of the way in handling a text. A text is a motto of the first rank, as it is, or ought to be, the sole business of the subsequent discourse to explain and enforce it to the improvement of the hearers. How many sermons fall short of this end? How frequently is a text to a sermon, what a motto is to a coat of arms mere matter of decoration? Or, which is much worse, how often do preachers distort and misapply texts of scripture to savour some new doctrine or erroneous dogma? 
THERE is no doubt but that mottos may be used to advantage, when they are selected with judgment, and applied as an authority or elucidation of the subject in hand. They are with more propriety prefixed to short essays than to prolix and elaborate works; because the general sense of a concise performance may be condensed into a sew words more easily than can be expected of a disuse and voluminous work.

