On CONDUCTING THE AMERICAN CONTROVERSY
SIR,
I take the liberty, by means of your free and uninfluenced press, of communicating to the public a few remarks upon the manner of conducting the American controversy in general, and on some of the writers that have appeared in your paper in particular. That you may not past sends upon me immediately as an enemy to the royal authority, and a son of sedition, I declare that I esteemed his majesty king George the third to have the only rightful lawful title to the British crown, which was settled upon his family in consequence of the glorious revolution. You will say, this is nothing at all; it is the creed of the factious Bostonians. I will then go a little further, and say that I not only revere him as the first magistrate of the realm, but I love and honor him as a man, and am persuaded that he wishes the prosperity and happiness of his people in every part of his dominions. Nate, I have still more to say, I do not think the British ministry themselves have deserved all the abuse and foul names that have been bestowed on them by political writers. The steps which they have taken with respect to American affairs, and which I steamed to be unjust, impolitic, and barbarous to the highest degree, have been chiefly owing to the two following causes. 1. Ignorance or mistake, occasioned by the misinformation of interested and treacherous persons employed in their service. 2. The prejudices common to them, with persons of all ranks in the island of Great-Britain.
Of the first of these, I shall say nothing at present, because perhaps it may occur with as great propriety afterwards. But as to the second, there is to be found in the newspapers enough to convince every man of reflection, that it was not the king in the ministry only, but the whole nation that has enraged against America. The tide is but just beginning to turn; and I am in some doubt whether it has fairly turned yet, upon any larger principles than a regard to their own interest, which may be affected by our proceedings. It can hardly be expected, that the eyes of a whole nation should be at once opened upon the generous principles of universal liberty. It is natural for the multitude in Britain, who have been from their infancy taught to look upon an act of parliament as supreme and irresistible, and to consider the liberty of their country itself as consisting in the dominion of the house of commons, to be surprised and astonished that any society or body of men, calling into question the authority of parliament, and denying its power over them. It certainly require time to make them sensible that things are in such a situation America, the for the house of commons in Great-Britain to assume the uncontrouled power of imposing taxes upon American property, would be as inconsistent with the spirit of the British constitution, as it appears at first sight agreeable to its form. It argues great ignorance of human nature to suppose, that because we see a thing clearly, which we contemplate every day, in which it is our interest to believe and maintain, therefore they are destitute of honor and truth who do not acknowledge it immediately, though all their former ideas and habits have led them to a contrary supposition. A man will become an American by residing in the country three months, with the prospect of continuing, more easily and certainly than by reading or hearing of it for three years, amidst the sophistry of daily disputation.
For these reasons, I have often been grieved to see that the pleasers for American liberty, have make so much of abuse and invective against the ministry in general, as well as particular persons, with their reasonings in support of their own most righteous claim. I have often said to friends of America, on that subject, it is not the king in ministry, so much as the prejudices of Britons, with which you have to contend. Spare no pains to have them fully informed. Add to the immovable firmness with which you justly support your own rights, a continual solicitude to convince the people of Britain, that it is not passion but reason that inspires you. Tell them it cannot be ambition, but necessity, that makes you run an evident risk of the heaviest sufferings, rather than forfeit for yourselves and your posterity the greatest of all earthly blessings.
Another circumstance gave me still more uneasiness, viz. that many American patriots seem to countenance, and to think themselves interested in the prosperity of what most despicable of all factions that ever existed in the British Empire, headed by the celebrated John Wilkes, esq. That shameless gang carried on their attacks with such gross, and indecent, and groundless abuse of the king and his family, that they became odious to the nation, and indeed so contemptible, that the ministry sent at one time the lord mayor of London to the tower, without exciting the least resentment in the persons or property in that great city, so as to be felt in the operations of the treasury.
I am sensible, and I mention it with pleasure, that no American ever proceeded to such offensive extravagance on the subjects, as the people in Britain. Far greater insults were offered to the sovereign, within the city of London, and within the verge of the court, then ever were thought of, would have been permitted, by the mob in any part of America. Even the writings containing illiberal abuse from England, were scarcely sought after here, and many of them never published, although it could have been done without the least danger of up prosecution. Yet, though the people of America are as dutiful and respectful subjects to the king as any in his dominions, there were some things done, and some things published, that seem to intimate that we had one in the same cause with the author of the North-Britain, No. 45. The evil consequence of this was, that it had a tendency to lead the king in ministry to think that the American claim was no better than the Wilkite clamor, and so to oppose it with the same firmness, and to treat it with the same disdain. Nothing could be more injudicious than this conduct in the Americans; and it arose from the most absolute ignorance of political history. The stamp act, that first-born of American oppressions, was framed by the chief men of that very faction; and it is plain from their language to this hour, that they made no other use of American disturbances, but as engines of opposition, and to serve the mean purposes of party or a family interest.
I do not mean by this to take any part with or against the present ministry. I have seen many changes of the ministry, without any sensible change of the state of public affairs. Nothing is more common with them than to raise a hideous outcry against the measure, when they are out, and yet, without shame or conscience, do the very same thing as soon as they get in. I look upon the cause of America at present to be a matter of truly inexpressible moment. The state of the human race through a great part of the globe, for ages to come, depends upon it. Any minister or ministry, who is in or out of court favor, at a particular juncture, is so little a matter, that it should not be named with it.

