LETTER I
March 20, 1774
EVEN the most ignorant perceive this to be a crisis of the utmost importance to Great Britain, and to North America: but it doth not appear that the most sage have yet formed a plan of proceedings that is likely to give content to both parties. With deference to the sentiments of others, and with a sincere desire of rendering a service to my country, permit me to offer a few thoughts on the subject, and to throw some hints in your way, which I do not perceive to have been as yet started by any political writer. It is most deeply to be lamented, that passion and prejudice, pride and self-interest, have evidently too much influence over the minds of most men, to suffer them to decide impartially and
equitably in such delicate conjunctures as the present. We want now to discover, and to establish a principle of lasting union between our colonies and the mother country; while the measures of administration, the deliberations in parliament, the sentiments of political writers, and the language of the people at large, all tend to prove, that the most probable event will be mutual jealousy, animosity, and strife. It is the misfortune of this country, surely without necessity, that schemes of reformation, and plans of a great and comprehensive nature, for the general benefit of the people, are rarely or never formed before-hand in the peaceful closet of a provident minister; and, it is as unusual for them to attain their completion by dispassionate contemplation, and the calm determinations of wisdom. On the contrary, we suffer every trivial error and irregularity to ripen into mischief
before we think of reformation; when we undertake it at last with minds heated to fermentation, and we perform it with rashness and violence. Let not, however, on this great occasion, any thing so intemperate and faulty mark your deliberations, nor leave a stain upon your measures. Reflect, that the fate of empires is now in suspence, and that the balance is in your hands. No
patriots of any age or country ever had a nobler opportunity of immortalizing their fame; nor, what is infinitely more to be desired, of obtaining the inward reward of self-approbation for having given happiness to millions. Remember your duty to mankind; remember your duty to God. Let not the breath of anger or resentment sully your councils; let not jealousy or ambition poison
your breasts, nor hang upon your tongues. Be calm, contemplative, candid, prudent, wife; let justice and benevolence rule your hearts; in one word, be Christians! embracing with love and charity your American brethren; and consulting their happiness equally with your own.
   The two grand questions now to be decided are; 1. Whether or not the British parliament or legislature, hath the right of sovereignty over North America? And, 2. Whether or not a British parliament hath a right to tax the North Americans?
   Although the latter question be properly involved in the former, since taxation is a part of legislation, yet being extremely simple and well understood, I shall consider it first, in order to get rid of it; so as it may not embarrass our discussion of the other, which it will be necessary for us to treat with all possible perspicuity. As for those who, with great warmth, maintain the right of parliament to tax the North Americans, surely they are rather to be pitied than argued with! Must they not be totally ignorant of the principles of that inestimable constitution, under which they have the happiness to live?
How then shall we expect them to be acquainted with the principles of the law of nature, from whence they flow? When I meet a man inclined towards this opinion, I do not contradict him; and I beseech him to avoid disputation above all things. I beg of him also to divest himself totally of every previous inclination for seeing the point in this or in that light; to consult immediately the great Mr. Locke, and other authors of note, and after a careful examination of the arguments for and against the Question, to decide upon it himself impartially and honestly. I remind him likewise, that it is his interest, as well as for the advantage of his country, that he should discover the truth: but a matter of total indifferency on which side it lies. If this fail to set him right, I do not dispute with him myself, nor do I assume the countenance or manner of an opponent; but I intimate to him, that, were he of my opinion, it would afford him great satisfaction of mind; since it gives me a consistency of
sentiment, by which I see every right of legislation perfectly consonant with the freedom and the happiness of mankind; and I then simply state my reasons for holding it. I have ever found this appeal to a man's own heart
and understanding, the most successful way of enlightening the one, and improving the other. Very few indeed of those with whom I have thus reasoned, on the present subject of American Taxation, have gone away unsatisfied, or found a necessity of reading, in order to be convinced: but ignorance and obstinacy, heated by former debate, have sometimes rendered my endeavours ineffectual; and such as were notorious for a vicious ambition,
or servility to the ruling powers, have generally remained immoveable, though without producing one suit or wise argument in support of their sentiments, or rather their assertions. Such men are not aware how much they lay open to the light that part of their characters they always mean to hide; and that there is as much dishonesty in that disposition which denies an evident truth, as in that which gives a false evidence, or takes a purse. It would have required no learning, but only common sense and common honesty, to have known that man hath no property in that which another can by right take from him without his consent, had not the world been pestered with writers of corrupt hearts, who, for wicked ends, have brought this clear proposition into dispute, and involved it in a casuistical jargon, which persons of plain sense, and too busy or too indolent for reflection, are apt to mistake for learning and superior skill; and to compliment it, first with doubting, and then denying upon trust, what they once understood and believed. But I trust, that characters so weak as these, so profligate as those, will have no influence with the British legislature; that its deliberations will be carried on with too much wisdom and
too much dignity to give a hearing to the drivelings of shallow and impudent pratters; or to suffer the unseemly violence of furious and tyrannical spirits, to discompose that serenity and divestment from passion, which ought ever to be observed in the presence of Majesty, and in the awful councils of the nation. Here I must express my concern, that it should seem to be thought by very
sensible men, that it is necessary to appeal to antient times, in order to ascertain the right of a free subject not to be taxed without his consent, either in person or by representation. With as much reason might we go about to
prove, that no ancient King had a right to take from every subject at his good pleasure, an eye or an ear. It is sufficient that we know any maxim in our law, to be at the same time a maxim of the law of nature, or demonstrably deducible from its fundamental principles. What is it to the purpose, whether such a maxim was received and acquiesced in only yesterday, or a thousand years ago? Truth is not the less truth, though mankind were in ignorance of it until lately. No mathematician, in demonstrating an astronomical problem, thinks it necessary to prove the properties of a triangle, a circle, or an ellipse; why then should the politician waste his time and embarrass his argument, with proving principles and axioms universally assented to by all just reasoners? not but that a maxim carries more weight and authority with it,
as this of the necessary connection between taxation and representation, when we find it has been the uniform sentiment of all ages; and references to antient times, and to various histories, serve very properly to illustrate political arguments; sometimes facilitating their reception among the timid and suspicious, who are apt to shrink at told and honest truths, to which they have not been familiarized. 



